---
description: Trusted Transparent Transactions
---

# T3

## Trusted Transparent Transactions (T3)

### Overview

The T3 service is responsible for storing and querying transparent data for select MobileCoin transactions. This capability makes transparency opt-in for MobileCoin wallets which wish to maintain regulatory compliance. T3 supports all current and future native tokens of the MobileCoin network. Currently, the native tokens are **MobileCoin (MOB)** and our stable coin **Electronic USD (eUSD)**.

#### Wallets with T3 Capabilities

Currently, there are two wallets which support reporting to T3:

1. Moby - our first party self-custodial mobile wallet
2. Full Service (and Desktop Wallet) - our first party desktop/server-based wallet solution

Moby reports only on and off ramp transactions with centralized third parties (e.g. Paybis and Moonpay). Full Service, if enabled with T3, will report all transactions in and out of that wallet's accounts. Only one party to the transaction needs to report to T3 in order for the transaction to be considered transparent. Thus, T3 is a one-party opt-in transparency system.

#### Trusted Access Control

Note that transparent transactions are still fully encrypted on the MobileCoin blockchain. T3 is built as a layer above the blockchain to be more flexible and to provide control over who can read and write T3 data. This benefits customers as it prevents customer wallets and balance data from becoming a target for bad actors.

Access to T3 is granted with API keys, separately provisioned for reading and writing to T3. Moby, our first party self-custody mobile wallet, comes with built-in keys for writing data to T3. For Full Service and Desktop Wallet, an API key must be obtained and supplied to Full Service. The API key identifies the institution to which the Full Service wallet belongs.

#### Typical Partner Integrations

We expect the majority of institutional partners to follow the following general integration path:

1. Deploy a Full Service node for their MobileCoin hot wallets.
2. Enable T3 integration with their Full Service node and report 100% of their in- and out- going transactions.
3. Utilize our blockchain analysis partner (Elliptic) to perform wallet and transactional monitoring for compliance obligations.
4. If spot checking of transactions is required we can additionally provision a T3 read key for the institution.
5. Partners are responsible for their own KYC and AML regulatory compliance. T3 does not contain KYC or any other PII data.

### T3 Capabilities

T3 maintains 3 primary capabilities:

1. LOOKUP - Find transparent transaction records by txo public key hex (transaction hash) or wallet address
2. LIST - List out all transparent transaction records within a time region (e.g. last 30 days)
3. CREATE - Creating new transparent transaction records

#### Technical Details

Each API is an HTTP `POST` request to `https://t3.moby.app` with the request body containing a json object. All endpoints are currently version 1 and are thus prefaced with `/v1`. The `Content-Type` for all requests should be `application/json`. The following sections will provide example JSON schemas for each call and a description of its functionality. A Postman file is also available with examples.

We also have a staging endpoint at `https://t3.stage.moby.app`. Staging has a separate set of API keys and validates transactions which belong to MobileCoin's public testnet. Note that the data in our staging environment does contain significant amounts of testing data, including invalid transactions.

#### Authentication and Rate Limits

To call T3 APIs you must provide an API key as a header in the form `Authorization: apikey {{KEY}}`. Please contact MobileCoin for API key provisioning. Reading from T3 requires a separate API key than for writing to T3. Currently, all T3 read keys are able to query the entire T3 dataset with no restrictions.

We institute rate limits on a per API key level supporting at most 500 calls per 10 seconds. For calls to LOOKUP each enumerated txo public key and wallet address count towards the 500. For example, if you wanted to look up the history of 1000 wallets you must make at least 2 calls separated by 10 seconds. In general, we suggest calling lookup on a smaller set of wallets and transaction hashes as a large history may cause timeouts.

#### TransparentTransaction Records

Each API endpoint utilizes the `TransparentTransaction` schema which has the following parts:

* `senderAddressHash` - a base64 representation of a hash of the transaction sender's wallet address
* `recipientAddressHash` - a base64 representation of a hash of the transaction recipient's wallet address
* `tokenId` - `0` for MOB and `1` for eUSD
* `amount` - Integer representation of the tokens sent in the transaction (MOB has 12 decimals, eUSD has 6)
* `publicKeyHex` - Hexadecimal representation of the txo public key, which is a unique transaction identifier similar to what other blockchains refer to as a transaction hash
* `createdAt` - Unix timestamp of when the T3 report was created
* `blockTime` - Unix timestamp of when the transaction was added to the blockchain
* `blockIndex` - Block number which included this transaction
* `reporterType` - The kind of user reporting the transaction, either `MOBY` or `API`
* `reporterIdentity` - For API reporters this may contain an institutional identity
* `senderInstitution` - A `KnownInstitution` if the sending wallet is known to belong to the institution
* `recipientInstitution` - A `KnownInstitution` if the receiving wallet is known to belong to the institution

List of `KnownInstitution` values (for use in `senderInstitution` and `recipientInstitution`):

* `PAYBIS`
* `BINANCE`
* `NONE` and `UNSPECIFIED` are values which indicate likely non-institutional wallets (note that transaction pre-dating October 2023 did not report this value)

We are constantly improving T3 for improved data visibility and utility. There may be additional undocumented fields which appear or disappear from the production dataset. Until these are documented and published by MobileCoin please treat these fields as non-production ready. Broadly speaking as new features are added to T3 the data will only be available going forward from the time it was added to T3.

#### List Transactions API - `/v1/list`

The list endpoint permits authorized API keys to view all transactions sent to T3 since a given point in time. If no json payload is sent to the endpoint, or `created_since` is set to `0`, T3 will provide the last 24 hours of data.

An example payload for listing transactions since a given timestamp would be:

```json
{
    "created_since": 1699555200
}
```

The response will contain a result code and list of transactions. For example (testnet data):

```json
{
  "result": "RESULT_OK",
  "transactions": [
    {
      "senderAddressHash": "UNQpzz+CFZDpMqpMW1bFJ9phi4sMItcNmTVrB7G0hSs=",
      "recipientAddressHash": "UNQpzz+CFZDpMqpMW1bFJ9phi4sMItcNmTVrB7G0hSs=",
      "tokenId": "0",
      "amount": "1",
      "publicKeyHex": "acc5e5d7e2a8d52a9150191969b70213cd6a5c8b69fc7fa24555d9b59c60a07d",
      "createdAt": "1699555246",
      "reporterIdentity": "PaybisTEST",
      "reporterType": "REPORTER_TYPE_API",
      "senderInstitution": "KNOWN_INSTITUTION_UNSPECIFIED",
      "recipientInstitution": "KNOWN_INSTITUTION_PAYBIS",
      "blockTime": "1699555172",
      "blockIndex": "2225426"
    },
    // ...snip...
  ]
}
```

#### Lookup Transactions API - `/v1/lookup`

The lookup endpoint permits authorized API keys to retrieve transparent data about one or more wallets or transactions. In either case the endpoint will return an array of transaction objects related to the requested search criteria.

The response bodies for `/v1/lookup` are identical in structure to that of `/v1/list`. See above for an example response.

**Lookup Wallet History**

To retrieve information about one or more wallets, provide wallet addresses or address hashes. The response will include a list of all transactions related to the wallets. Wallets with no history will simply return an empty list of transactions.

Here is an example for hashes (testnet data):

```json
{
  "address_hashes": [
    "UNQpzz+CFZDpMqpMW1bFJ9phi4sMItcNmTVrB7G0hSs="
  ]
}
```

Here is an example for wallet addresses (testnet data):

```json
{
    "addresses": [
        "7Dre6HCZgm82YBJmn1FgooMJGd8YgyfMMTxHTR6eMja8nzcEQfJAfD7sBkR95azeitkKkteLP58jjV5F2y3LLTQefke3JGA1TsHwS9pbr4x"
    ]
}
```

**Lookup Transaction Information**

To retrieve information about one or more transactions, provide the txo public key hexes of those transactions. The response will include a list of `TransparentTransaction` records corresponding to the listed txo public keys. If there is no information in T3 about a requested txo public key, rather than a return an error, the returned dataset will simply lack `TransparentTransaction` records for that txo public key, including returning an empty list if there are no records for any of the txo public keys being looked up.

Here is an example (testnet data):

```json
{
    "public_key_hex": [
        "acc5e5d7e2a8d52a9150191969b70213cd6a5c8b69fc7fa24555d9b59c60a07d"
    ]
}
```

#### v1 Create Transaction API (undocumented)

The create transaction endpoint permits authenticated wallets to report transaction details to T3. This endpoint is not documented here as only MobileCoin's first-party wallets (Moby and Full Service) are permitted. We plan to document this interface further in the future as we explore T3's options for our open source community.

### API Caveats

#### Multi Reporting and Deduplication

Once our partners onboard with Full Service T3 reporting there may be cases where both parties for a transaction report to T3. For example, if a Moby user reports a transaction with Paybis to T3 and Paybis also reports that transaction to T3. While we do intend to build deduplication logic into T3 in the future, multi-reporting is currently a beta feature. Until dedupliation logic is present it is up to the T3 consumer to handle receiving the same transaction data multiple times.

Since txo public key hex values are blockchain unique, any time a list or lookup API call returns two entries with the same txo public key hex, it is because T3 received multiple reports about the same transaction. Our current guidance is to prefer data originating from API type reporters (e.g. where `reporter_type` is `API`). This is because `API` reporters are known to MobileCoin as regulated institutions with obligations to report their transactions.

#### Timing of T3 Reports

Since T3 is built as a layer on top of the blockchain there is no guarantee that a given transaction has or will ever be reported to T3. In fact, it is a principal of T3 that a MobileCoin user may choose to make any of their prior history transparent at any time in the future. Due to this, one cannot assume that transactions on the chain but not in T3 today will not appear in T3 in the future. T3 does, however, enforce that transactions must have first actually been written to the chain before being sent to T3. This prevents T3 from ingesting non-consensus transactions.

#### Wallet Address vs Wallet Hash

Due to limitations on the size of memo fields we chose to include only a hash of the wallet address in the Authenticated Sender Memo. Since all clients are reliant on this memo field we chose to also use wallet address hash values in T3 instead of full wallet addresses. This also permits the recipient of a transaction to be a T3 reporter (as they are not guaranteed to know the sender's full wallet address).

### Requesting an API Key

Please contact `security@mobilecoin.com` for receiving a T3 API key and provide:

* A purpose for API use including if read and/or write access is needed
* Anticipated API call volume
* A contact name
* A contact email
* Number of keys needed if more than 1



## Enabling Reporting in Full Service

To enable T3 within Full Service, you will need to obtain an API KEY by following the instructions found [here](https://github.com/mobilecoinofficial/trusted-transparent-transactions/blob/main/docs/index.md#requesting-an-api-key)

Once you have the API KEY, you will need to provide two runtime variables, either as command line args or environment variables.

As **environment variables**, set the following when running full service:

1. T3\_URI
2. T3\_API\_KEY

As **command line args**, set the following when running full service:

1. \--t3-uri
2. \--t3-api-key
